










MGMT1401
Microeconomics
Fall 2021 - Spring 2023








Last Updated: 4/28/2021 4:42:48 PM

Care has been taken to obtain copyright permission to reproduce this material. Any information that will enable Bow Valley College to obtain copyright clearance for any material not acknowledged would gladly be received by:
Bow Valley College 345 6th Avenue SE Calgary AB T2G 4V1 Attn: Copyright Officer
email: copyright@bowvalleycollege.ca

© Bow Valley College

	MGMT1401 Microeconomics
	COURSE DESCRIPTION 
The allocation of scarce resources in the face of unlimited wants and needs is at the core of economics. This course introduces the fundamentals of microeconomics and creates the foundation for economic analysis and thinking. The course starts with the study of individual choice and opportunity cost, then proceeds to introduce supply and demand and the market adjustments leading to equilibrium, and addresses the use of market price and the sources of market failure. It transitions to consumer behaviour focusing on how consumers make decisions, while creating a framework to understand how firms optimize production under different market structures. The course concludes with the application of microeconomic theory to more advanced topics such as international trade, marginal analysis and the trade-off between equity and efficiency. Learners are recommended to complete the Business Math Skills Self-Assessment (https://bowvalleycollege.ca/schools/chiu-school-of- business/MSA) prior to taking this course.

  REQUISITES EQUIVALENTS
     CREDITS HOURS ELIGIBLE FOR
PLAR




Bow Valley College is committed to ensuring our graduates can demonstrate their abilities in key areas that will make them effective citizens and encourage their development as lifelong learners. In addition to the discipline-specific skills that learners acquire in their programs, the College has identified ten learning outcomes.
College-Wide Outcomes:

1. Communication
2. Thinking Skills
3. Numeracy and Financial Literacy
4. Working with Others
5. Digital Literacy
6. Positive Attitudes and Behaviours
7. Continuous Learning
8. Health and Wellness Awareness
9. Citizenship and Intercultural Competence
10. Environmental Sustainability

#	COURSE LEARNING OUTCOME(S)	COLLEGE WIDE OUTCOMES SUPPORTED
1Use economic terminology to explain
economic facts and policiesCommunication (1)2Apply demand and supply models to
decisions made by firms and individualsThinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3)
3Digitally represent demand and supply graphically and demonstrate the impact
of changesThinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3), Digital Literacy (5)4Evaluate market efficiencyThinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3)5Graphically illustrate the consequences of
government action in marketsThinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3),
Environmental Sustainability (10)
6Engage diverse perspectives to explain consumer behavior using economic
modelsCommunication (1), Thinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3), Citizenship and Intercultural
Competence (9)7Use cost and product curves to make
output decisionsThinking Skills (2), Numeracy and Financial Literacy (3)8Articulate the levels of competition
between firms within a given marketCommunication (1), Thinking Skills (2), Working with
Others (4)9Explain the role of externalities, public
goods, and common resources in marketsCommunication (1), Thinking Skills (2), Environmental
Sustainability (10)



*Course schedule subject to change, depending on delivery mode and term of study. For exact dates, please consult the Course Offering Information in Brightspace.

WEEK/HOURS MODULES
Week 1Introduction, CH 1 - What is Economics?Week 2CH 2 - The Economic Problem, CH 3 - Demand and SupplyWeek 3CH 4 - ElasticityWeek 4CH 5 - Efficiency and EquityWeek 5CH 6 - Government Actions in MarketsWeek 6CH 8 - Utility and DemandWeek 7CH 10 - Output and CostsWeek 8CH 11 - Perfect CompetitionWeek 9Reading WeekWeek 10CH 12 - MonopoliesWeek 11CH 13 - Monopolistic CompetitionWeek 12CH 14 - OligopoliesWeek 13CH 15 - ExternalitiesWeek 14CH 16 - Public Goods and Common ResourcesWeek 15Final Exam Week

	ASSESSMENT 


COURSE LEARNING OUTCOME(S)


ASSESSMENT	WEIGHT

1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9Assignments50%1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9Exams50%
Important: For details on each assignment and exam, please see the Course Offering Information.




A minimum grade of D is required to pass this course. However, a program may require a higher grade in this course to progress in the program or to meet specific program completion requirements.
Please consult with the program area or contact the program chair for further details. A minimum Grade Point Average of 2.0 is required for graduation.

	GRADING SCHEME 

GradePercentageGrade PointDescription
A+
95-100
4.0Exceptional: superior knowledge of subject
matter
A
90-94
4.0Excellent: outstanding knowledge of subject
matterA-85-893.67B+80-843.33
B
75-79
3.0Very Good: knowledge of
subject matter generally masteredB-70-742.67C+67-692.33
C
64-66
2.0Satisfactory/Acceptable: knowledge of subject matter adequately
masteredC-60-631.67D+57-591.33D50-561.0Minimal PassFLess than 500.0Fail: an unsatisfactory
performance


Microeconomics: Canada in the Global Environment, 11th Edition (Plus MyLab Economics with Pearson e-Text Access Card Package 11/E) Michael Parkin, Robin Bade; Pearson
ISBN-13: 9780136691839

Additional learning resources may be found in the Course Offering Information or in Brightspace.




Additional information may be found in the Course Offering Information or in Brightspace.






Learners with a disability (learning, physical, and/or mental health) may qualify for academic and exam accommodations. For more information, or to apply for accommodations, learners should make an appointment with Accessibility Services in the Learner Success Services (LSS) Department. Accessibility Services can also assist learners who may be struggling with learning but do not have a formal diagnosis. To make an appointment visit LSS on the first floor of the south campus or call 403-410-1440. It is the learner's responsibility to contact Accessibility Services and request academic accommodations. For more information, please visit our website at http://www.bowvalleycollege.ca/accessibility.


	INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES 
Bow Valley College is committed to the highest standards of academic integrity and honesty. Learners are urged to become familiar with and uphold the following policies: Academic Integrity (500-1-7), Learner Code of Conduct, Procedures and Guidelines (500-1-1), Learner Appeals (500-1-12), Attendance (500-1-10), Grading (500-1-6), Academic Continuance and Graduation (500-1-5), and Electronic Communications (300- 2-13). Audio or video recording of lectures, labs, seminars, or any other teaching and learning environment by learners is allowed only with consent of the instructor as part of an approved accommodation plan.
Recorded material is to be used solely for personal study and is not being used or distributed without prior written consent from the instructor.
Turnitin:

Students may be required to submit their course work to Turnitin, a third-party service provider engaged by BVC. Turnitin identifies plagiarism by checking databases of electronic books and articles, archived webpages, and previously submitted student papers. Students acknowledge that any course work or essays submitted to Turnitin will be included as source documents in the Turnitin.com reference database, where it will be used solely to detect plagiarism. The terms that apply to a student’s use of Turnitin are described on Turnitin.com.
Online Exam Proctoring:

Examinations for this course may require proctoring through an online proctoring service. Online proctoring enables online exam taking within a controlled and monitored environment, thereby enhancing academic integrity. Online proctoring may occur through a variety of methods, including but not limited to:
a. live online proctoring where a remote invigilator authenticates identity and observes completion of an exam using specialized software and recordings;
b. automated proctoring where the exam session is recorded and AI (artificial intelligence) analyzed;
c. browser lockdown that limits access to other applications, websites, copying, printing, screen capture and other functions; or

d. a combination of both live/automated proctoring and browser lockdown.

Course instructors will review recordings, analyses, and data obtained through online proctoring for academic integrity infractions. It is the student’s responsibility to meet the technical, software, location, and identity verification requirements necessary to enable online proctoring.
Further details of these policies are available in the Academic Calendar and on the Bow Valley College website, bowvalleycollege.ca.
Learners are encouraged to keep a copy of this course outline for future reference.

Collection of Personal Information:

This course, including your image and voice, may be recorded and made available to you and other students taking the course section. By attending the class(es) online or in person, you consent to the collection of your personal information. If you do not wish to be recorded, please contact your instructor before starting the course/class to discuss alternative arrangements.
You may use the recordings only for educational purposes and you must not copy, share, or use the recordings for any other purpose without the instructor's express permission.
Your personal information is collected in accordance with section 33(c) of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act (Alberta) to deliver academic programming, support learner flexibility, promote universal design for learning principles, and for purposes consistent with the course activities and outcomes. If you have any questions about the collection, disclosure, use, or protection of this information, please contact the College's Access and Privacy Officer at foip@bowvalleycollege.ca.




